---
problem_id: problem-36
author: RRuggiero
date: '2017-08-03T04:06:59-07:00'
---
The answer is no, there are many examples of nonpositively curved compact
surfaces where the curvature vanishes along a simple closed geodesic. Such
examples can be found in Contreras-Ruggiero, "Non hyperbolic surfaces having
all ideal triangles with finite area", Bol. Soc. Mat. Bras. vol. 28, 1 (1997)
43-71. One of the goals of this article was to explore the asymptotics of the
orbits in the stable manifold of a flat geodesic without strip. It is shown
that for every a>0 there exists a compact surface as described above such that
the distance from the closed geodesic with vanishing curvature to an
asymptotic one is of the order of T-a where T is the arc length parameter of
the closed geodesic. An interesting feature came out from this analysis, if
the function T-a is integrable in the set T>1 then the best regularity for the
Riemannian metric in the surface is C3. This regularity constraint that seemed
to arise from the construction of the surfaces was examined in the article
"Flatness of Gaussian curvature and area of ideal triangles", by R. Ruggiero,
Bol. Soc. Bras. Mat. vol. 28, 1 (1997) 73-87, where it is proved that if a
compact surface with nonpositive curvature is C4 and the area of ideal
triangles in the universal covering is bounded above by some constant then the
geodesic flow is actually Anosov. This statement should extend to compact
surfaces without conjugate points and higher genus. So Bowen's question
involves subtle issues about the regularity of the dynamics and the feasible
asymptotic behaviors of non-hyperbolic dynamics. In the case of geodesic flows
of compact nonpositively curved surfaces the above results imply that when the
surface is of class C4 then the area of ideal triangles is finite if and only
if the geodesic flow is Anosov, so an expansive non Anosov geodesic flow in
this family of surfaces must have ideal triangles with arbitrarily large area.
If the regularity of the surface is less than C4 there are examples of
expansive non Anosov geodesic flows all of whose ideal triangles have finite
area in the first mentioned reference. Such examples share many special
properties with Anosov flows, like the existence of solutions of cohomological
and subcohomological equations (see "Cohomology and subcohomology problems for
expansive, non Anosov geodesic flows", by A. Lopes, W. Rosas and R. Ruggiero,
Disc. Cont. Dyn. Sys. vol. 17, 2 (2007) 403-422). with applications to the
thermodynamics formalism of the dynamics.

