---
problem_id: problem-146
author: Mike Boyle
date: '2017-07-29T10:19:33-07:00'
---
a. Kitchens (a Bowen grandson) showed there are mixing shifts of finite type
with no equal entropy SFT factor with a fixed point. See e.g. Example 4.2.12
of Kitchens' book {{< cite Kitchens1998book >}}. Every shift of finite type
has an equal entropy sofic quotient with a fixed point. (Form the quotient
system by collapsing a single finite orbit to a point, and identifying no
other points.) I don't know whether every mixing SFT has an equal entropy
quotient with canonical coordinates (local product structure) and a fixed
point. b. A periodic point $p$ in the interior has a unique preimage in the
covering SFT. An answer ``no'' to this question would reveal interesting
nonhomogenity of the map on the basic set, and the zeta function counting such
$p$ (if they exist) would be an interesting invariant. c. The paper {{< cite
AshleyKitchensStafford1992 >}} should be relevant to this question. d. By work
of Nasu or Kitchens, there are equal entropy mixing shifts of finite type with
no common equal entropy SFT factor, as argued by Kitchens. See e.g. Example
4.2.12 of Kitchens' book {{< cite Kitchens1998book >}}. (In contrast, by the
Adler-Marcus theorem, two equal entropy mixing shifts of finite type have a
common mixing SFT extension by 1-1 a.e. factor maps.) Regarding other ``good
quotient'' possibilities: must two equal entropy mixing SFTs have a common
equal entropy factor which is sofic? expansive? expansive with canonical
coordinates? Must there be any common equal entropy factor? For the sofic
question, ideas around Nasu's core matrix might be relevant, as in the paper
{{< cite TrowWilliams1996 >}} giving an example of an entropy log n sofic
shift which (in contrast to the SFT case) does not factor onto the full shift
on n symbols.

