---
problem_id: problem-88
author: CarlSimon
date: '2017-08-01T14:23:33-07:00'
---
Hirsch mentioned this problem in [1]. In [2], we show that the conjecture is
true for diffeomorphisms of 2-manifolds, but only in the C1- topology of
diffeomorphisms. The problem is especially interesting within the space of
symplectic diffeomorphisms, or equivalently (see [4], e.g., for the
equivalence) for zeroes of gradient vector fields. In [3] we discuss how this
is related to the proof of the second fixed point in the Poincare-Birkhoff
Twist Theorem on the annulus. In [3] we show that the answer is yes for
analytic symplectic transformations of 2-manifolds but only when certain
regularity conditions are satisfied. We also show that the answer is no in
dimensions > 2, basically because there are more invariants to consider than
just the fixed point index. The answer for symplectic maps of M2 is equivalent
to the problem of “removing “ index zero intersections of two 2-dimensional
Lagrangian submanifolds in R4. References: 1\. Hirsch, Morris. 1973. Stability
of Compact Leaves of Foliations. In: Dynamical Systems. (M. Peixoto, editor)
NY: Academic Press. 2\. Simon, Carl and Titus, Charles. 1973. Removing Index--
Zero Singularities with C1-Small Perturbations. In: Dynamical Systems---
Warwick 1974. (A. Manning, editor). New York: Springer-Verlag Lecture Notes in
Math 468 (1975) 278-286. 3\. Simon, Carl and Titus, Charles. 1973. The Fixed
Point Index of Symplectic Maps. In: (J-M Souriau, editor). Geometrie
Symplectique et Physique Mathematique. Paris: C.N.R.S. (1975) No. 237, 19-28.
4\. Simon, Carl. 1974. A Bound for the Fixed-Point Index of an Area-Preserving
Map with Applications to Mechanics. Inventiones Math., 26 (1974) 187-200.

