---
problem_id: problem-77
author: Mike Boyle
date: '2017-07-27T16:15:39-07:00'
---
Various versions of ``conjugacy between topology and measure theory'' have
been studied in the case of a mixing shift of finite type $S$ with a specified
invariant Markov measure $\mu$. At one extreme, a conjugacy $\phi: (S,\mu )
\to (S,\mu')$ is only required to satisfy $\phi_* (\mu ) = \mu'$ with $\phi S
= S'\phi$ on a set of full $\mu$ measure. At the other extreme, $\phi$ is also
required to be a homeomorphism. Intermediate requirements on $\phi$ were
studied by Keane and Smorodinsky, Parry, Schmidt, Marcus and Tuncel, Gomez ...
For a brief review of this with references, and the still-open ``Good finitary
conjecture'', see the discussion of Problem 9 in {{< cite Boyle2008open >}}
(also available as ``OPSD'' at http://www.math.umd.edu/~mboyle/open/ ).In
another direction, one can consider homeomorphisms $S$ and $S'$ with respect
to all invariant Borel probabilities (not just one), and ask for a topological
or Borel conjugacy between the complements of sets of measure zero for all
nonatomic invariant Borel probabilities. Hochman {{< cite hochman2013full >}}
proved striking universality results in this direction (for application of
this work to $C^+$ diffeomorphisms, see {{< cite boyle2014almost >}}, {{< cite
buzzi2015almost >}}).Finally, following Shelah and Weiss, one can consider $S$
and $S'$ as Borel systems, neglecting wandering sets; see {{< cite
hochman2015borel >}} for dramatic progress on this long stalled study.

